Hey guys welcome back.
All right so we're going to go over another way that you can put together image post for Instagram.
And this is photoshop.
I don't know if you use Photoshop before but it is kind of the master tool of pretty much anything image
manipulation image filtering coloring anything really.
It's probably the most complex and the most capable image manipulator out there.
Now if you're satisfied with the other tools that we've used then I would just say skip on if you're
just curious about how Photoshop works.
You can follow along.
I'm going to just say this that we're not going to hit every single feature on Photoshop that would
take roughly a year to do.
We're just going to cover the really basic stuff so that we can do effectively what we've done in the
other lectures with the other tools.
And then it's really upon you if you want to get in deep with learning how to do a lot of the other
stuff they can do.
But it sounds a very very powerful tool.
So there's really anything you want to do you can do in Photoshop it's just a question of whether or
not it's the most efficient way of doing it.
One thing worth pointing out is that Photoshop has a sister program called illustrator.
I wouldn't use Illustrator for something like this.
Illustrator is good for what's called vector vector is just a way of describing an image that means
that it's infinitely scalable because all of the points on the image are all relative to each other.
Where as Photoshop is more like the way we think of an actual photo each individual tiny little space
is a pixel that has a color and then you put them all together into a photo so it's just a lot easier
to work with.
All right so let's just jump right in.
I'm going to use 6.
Now this is actually an outdated version now used to be that you would see one two three four all up
to six.
But they then stopped doing that and started doing Adobe c c and c c just means Creative Cloud.
The reason why they did that is that they wanted it turned into a subscription service and you had to
constantly have it attached to the Internet and that's how they got around pirating whatever.
Personally I use the old one because I'm just more used to it.
There's rarely any difference between the two.
Really all they've done is just rearrange the buttons and icons change the names of some things and
then use that as a justification for charging you more money.
So I'm not doing it but it's up to you to use CC if you CC perfectly fine.
Just keep in mind that it cost something like $25 a month $30 a month something like that.
Do you have a student e-mail address you can actually get it cheaper.
But that's pretty much the only thing you have which is better than buying it outright.
That used to be like $300 or so anyway.
This is generally what it looks like.
Generally you have toolkits over here on the left.
You have a lot of different random stuff.
Over here we're not going to talk about that.
Over here we have layers.
Now if you don't see any of the stuff I'm showing you you can actually just go up your window and check
the box or whatever you actually need.
So this is pretty useful cooking history that will show you all the things you've done.
And then you can roll your image back.
You've made a mistake.
So the first thing you want to do is just go to file new.
And what we're going to do is just create something that matches the size of an Instagram post.
Now in its current post if you remember right it's 10 A.D. by 10 the rest of it I don't really suggest
screwing with.
I mean you can start with a white background if you want more background color.
The rest of the stuff is just not terribly important.
The resolution is perfectly fine and the rest of it you should be fine.
So you can give it a name if you want to.
It's called Instagram post.
And there you go.
So the way that this works pretty much like everything else you can zoom in and out and back it's command
minus or the dash in and command plus to go back in.
On Windows it's very similar as opposed to a command.
I think it's just control plus and minus.
Over here the way this works is you just have a series of tools.
Now they're not all immediately useful but it's worth knowing how a couple of them work.
You add text over here the text button you have shape's over here with the rectangle tool and then what
you do is just change it to a line or a custom shape or an ellipse or any of that stuff if you want
to ever say like just make a background color for your space.
You get this bucket of paint and then what you do is come down here and it has two different colors.
So usually what you're going to do is just set the foreground color and then pick what you want.
You can use a hex code if you want to.
Let's say I wanted to use that red.
So then what I do is there we go and I go over here and just click OK.
So that's how you get red if you want that red.
Now if you didn't want that you could also just hit in Mac commands Z or in Windows controls.
So we just go back up here is the eraser tool that's pretty useful if you are editing something and
you want to go back.
You just start.
You can just start doing Racinet the way you want to modify this is up here.
It'll show the size and so the size is kind of will dictate how big your racer is.
Sometimes it's a lot easier to work with smaller racers if you're doing some fine tuning the rest of
it.
I just ignore it.
OK so if you wanted to important image as background which I strongly suggest Hesters is doing it like
a bar or else just taking an image and throwing it and going rolling stock photo places even you can
just take something and then just drag and drop it like that.
And there you go.
Not automatically put you into the cropped mode and the crop mode.
You can just grab over here over here if you want it to scale with the same proportions of the image
doesn't look screwed up use the corners but then also hold shift while you do it.
Or alternatively you can go up here and click this link buttons it links the width to the height so
that you're not changing one at a time.
So that's what I would you like this probably just over extend it like that.
OK.
So we know this is the canvas right here.
Everything that goes outside of the canvas that's going to show up so it doesn't really matter.
And then I might just check the box to say I'm good.
OK.
Now you'll notice over here when I did that it created another layer.
Now Photoshop works in layers.
It's very similar like you noticed in Kanva how you can push things forward and backwards.
It's just treating objects like layers so the background is that white thing.
And then this toast image we put down is on top of that.
Now if I wanted this to be underneath the background I just moved down here.
Same thing over here if you wanted to just change the visibility.
You can do that.
You don't see it and you can also change things like the opacity over here and the fill if you actually
have a color that's in it.
All right so then it's probably going to do depending on your version.
Can I ask you a bunch of gobbledygook that doesn't mean anything to anyone.
But basically it's going to ask you to rasboras this into an object the smart object.
It doesn't really matter.
Basically means you can edit it.
So you say yes.
Now it's like a Photoshop Element or something.
I don't even know.
All right cool.
So now depending on what we want to do.
There's a lot we can do.
So if you want to manually blurt this out a blur background the blur tool over here.
Now you could blur it or sharpen it or just smudge it which is slightly different.
And here is the tool and I don't generally suggest using the blur like this.
I mean if you want to individually blur something specifically then sure grab this and just go to town
on it.
Generally if you want to blur it we're just going to use a filter.
Ok so at the top here at seena a filter and I'm sorry in advance if your Photoshop version doesn't say
it like this.
They're all bad.
I mean they all have the same features they're just reorganized.
Like I said it's a giant scam.
So you just got a filter here and you have a lot of different options and what this will do is it apply
a uniform filter to the entire thing.
So anything the filter setting up here that's going to affect everything over here you can actually
kind of tailor it to what you want.
So what just going to blur that as a bunch of different types of blur.
And it just depends how much you want to get into this again tilt shift blur.
We saw this earlier it's when you blur the top and the bottom and you can adjust that Iris more I believe
is like a radio ball or feel better.
I'm not even entirely sure that just have a lot.
OK so if you just want to you know whatever I don't understand this just blurred blurry there.
Personally I like this version it's called gaussian blur it's a very common type of blur.
It's a for me I think it's a little bit easier to make out what is being blurred.
So I would say gaussian blur.
OK and then has a preview here which is pretty useful.
So how blurred do you want it to be.
Well I'd probably want it to be blurred but enough that I can still kind of tell what it is.
The way that you would modify this is by changing the pixel so the radius of the pixels are basically
it treats it like Blur pixels being pasted on top of it larger the size essentially has a larger effect
so we would think that's like a very good like we can tell but it's going to give us plenty of room
to work with.
So we could just blur it like that.
OK.
Now let's say we didn't want to blur it.
We could just control Z and then go up here and there's just tons and filters you can play around with.
Now these filters give you way more control which is a good or bad thing depending on your workflow
and your technical experience or just experience with the design.
They have tons and tons of things here.
I mean you just play around with these and see if you can just get some type of design or effect that
you think is interesting like that.
OK.
And you can tile it.
Interesting.
Ones you can try.
Let's say you want to add noise that just adds little speckles onto it right dust and scratches.
Just a different style of noise.
Dust and scratches.
It kind of just adds a little bit of a too much all over the
not too visible.
I mean it has an effect it's just kind of hard to tell.
So you look at that.
Yeah I mean clientèle It's like scratched up a little bit.
Roll that back with control or Z if you're on a Mac trying distorting it if you want it to try like
a ripple distort.
This is usually a little bit easier to work with.
You can zoom out of the preview you want to see.
So that's the it's like this that makes it look like you're tripping on some psychedelic drugs a little
bit but you know got kind of looks like a 10 year old TV set used to screw up with getting the signal
incorrectly.
So they're I don't know it's another fact.
Now if I wanted to do any of those things that we did in the Instagram app or anything like the photography
apps we play it the hue the brightness the contrast things like that.
One way of doing it is up here.
You know the top right.
So this is just determining what type of tools you're being presented with so I can give you a different
grouping of tools if you go down to photography.
It will then give you some more things you'd see in photography This is called a histogram which just
helps you see the balance of colors and images.
That's up to you feel like a hard core photo editor.
And here you have adjustment so if you do brightness contrast levels curves these are things that are
you have to play with a histogram to do it.
Fun to play with but very hard to understand exposure levels huge saturation color balance black and
white channel mixer is a little bit weird.
And then things like inverting color.
So really I just stick to the simple stuff.
So if you want to lower the contrast here what you can do is just play with the slider right here.
It lowers the contrast up a little bit in his photos and how a lot of contrast work with those it were
here creates a new layer for this adjustment.
And they just do that I think out of convenience so that if you keep adding adjustments we'll just have
stacks of them and then you can edit each one that way.
So I want the lower contrast like a little bit darker as well.
We could do it like that.
And Photoshop is great if you really want to like fine tune things.
Or if I wanted to and text you just go over here to the text button and I could put in whatever it was.
We want it to be.
So I think that originally we said electronics.
So if I wanted to grab some fonts up here I could do whatever they want.
I'll probably just stick with proxy even Noma because I know that one works pretty well and here is
where I change the settings on how thick it is.
Here's where you change the size.
And then you have one last thing that gives you a way of slightly changing the way that each text is
processed to make it look crisp sharp strong or smooth and you'll kind of notice when the image gets
a little or the text gets a little bit larger.
So if it does like that and I wanted to make it look stronger I could go to strong.
And you kind of notice it like old it a little bit.
See if you can make this larger.
So if I wanted to make it crisp you kind of pull back the are a little bit.
It's sometimes hard to tell.
And sometimes it actually makes a pretty big effect.
So we probably want this to be smooth
OK.
So I have that and then if we wanted to change the thickness it could just highlight it and then go
to Simmie Bowl.
You'd see it just got thinner.
I personally I like extra bolts.
I'm trying to read it so good.
Extra Bold.
OK cool.
So we have that I probably would shrink it a little bit just so it sticks out a little bit better.
We'll drop this down to 80.
OK then I'm going to do is I'm going to add a background and then add opacity that background just sticks
out a little bit more.
So what I'll do is go and I'll draw a box.
Now when I draw the box it will create its own layer.
But if I wanted to manually create my own lawyer I could go down here and click on this button looks
like a piece of paper folded over that all manually created if I wanted to do this.
OK so it came out red remember we said this is red but I can still change it by double clicking here
and then changing the color to whatever I want someone to go with white notes here.
So I need to pull the text above it on the left side to make sure it pops up on top.
Now what I'm going to do.
So I'm just going to lower the capacity of this rectangle and make it kind of look like something that's
just really framing it's ever so slightly I might try to change the color slightly to make it more of
a gray that it doesn't have such a weird outliner effect.
So we could do it like that if you wanted to and then I might change the shape of the rectangle again.
Well you can do on Mac and T or Control-C on PC.
Well that does it just puts you back in that editor or you can change the shape of any object.
You want to make sure that you're being symmetrical.
Go up to view and then go to a show and it should have grid.
So you go to grid.
OK.
Now you can see it like this.
And if you wanted to you could really kind of just tailor it every way like zoom in and see that you're
making it pixel perfect.
OK.
So whatever you get two pixels on each side.
There we go.
Great.
I'm going to move the grids because it drove me nuts.
So there we go.
Let's see you do a little bit of adjustment.
So we'll go up here and this is going allow me to move this box if I click it and then just use the
arrows.
I can just ever so slightly move it.
OK.
So the rest of what I have to do is just throw in the logo and just some tweaking.
So if I want to throw on the logo I can do the exact same way I did it before.
Just find it and drop it in
severe we this here I will throw it in and then just lock it so I don't screw up the sizing on that
we'll try a different orientation of the logo this time.
Just see outcome's out there and then I'll throw the other one text.
And will lock it and screw it up.
And put it down here.
Probably
OK.
So that's one way of doing it.
Personally what I would probably do is edit this back ground a little bit more just so it fades a little
bit more.
So I could go back and do another round of contrast.
Lowering it can just make it darker if I wanted to.
So I think this is probably fine even if I want to blurt out I could do that could have gauzy and blue.
And then just do a very light one and see if that helps.
OK.
Yeah I mean it doesn't make it a little bit easier to focus on the text.
So there you go.
That's a 10 anyway.
Any image we put our own text in there we put in our logos we used the background color and we showed
how to edit it.
That is just a very very small piece of what Photoshop can do their entire course is built off of Photoshop
that are like 30 hours if you want to Photoshop images this is a good start for you.
You know how to create the size of the image you know what to work with layers you know how to modify
some of those photo effects on it you know how to add filters that are like preset type of effects and
you know how to use the basic tools over here to get going also to import images.
An error of change your text and all that stuff.
So I think that's good enough to get started if you want to find more about Photoshop will attach some
summaries and some guides that we found useful and the resources otherwise seen next ex-boxer.